chore: update the readme file (#2808)
SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-ui: README.md

| [docker](https://www.docker.com) | For building containers      |
| [helm](https://helm.sh)          | For packaging things for K8s |

## UI Client

The UI client is the [React-based](https://reactjs.org) front-end for RenkuLab.
Development started in 2017, and we have striven to change our development style
to reflect the evolving best practices around the tools we use.

Not all code conforms to the guidelines and best practices laid out in this

> document and you might find older code using deprecated technologies. that will
> be refactored in the future.

Reviewer: Typo?

```suggestion
document and you might find older code using deprecated technologies. That will
be refactored in the future.
```

| [Redux](https://redux.js.org)                 | Centralized state management                 |
| [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org) | State integration and fetching/caching tools |
| [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com)         | CSS framework based on a responsive grid     |

Mind that we try to take advantage of the latest features of React and Redux,
and to integrate the two tools as seamlessly as possible.

For this reason, please follow these simple best practices when dealing with new
React components:

- Use `useState` to manage component-local state
- Use `useEffect` for handling the component lifecycle

When dealing with the state, we follow the
[redux-toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/tutorials/typescript) style for interacting
with Redux. If you are not familiar with this, follow the link to see the tutorial.

In short:

- Global application state is kept in a single, global [Redux](https://redux.js.org) store.
- Features should have
  [slices](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/usage/usage-with-typescript#createslice) that
  encapsulate the state they need and add the slices into the
  [global store](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/api/configureStore).

> - Use the `useSelector` hook to access information from slices in components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use slice-specific selector hooks (e.g. [useWorkflowsSelector](https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-ui/blob/master/client/src/features/workflows/WorkflowsSlice.ts)), or the `useSelector` hook to access global state.
```

- Use the `useDispatch` hook to make changes to the state in components.

Also, please use [RTK Query](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/tutorials/rtk-query) to
interact with backend services. It greatly simplifies writing the code to fetch and
cache data, as well as handling the transitions through the request lifecycle.

### Code structure

Based on [these suggestions from Redux](https://redux.js.org/faq/code-structure), we decided to use a few folders to bundle functions and components together, broadly following the "Feature folders" style.

Here are the folders in `/client/src` where to place new components:

> - `features`: create/use sub-folders to contain files identifying single features. These sometimes correspond to Renku abstractions, like "Projects", "Datasets", "Sessions", or to cross-entity features such as "Search" and "Dashboard". All RTK queries should be triggered by components in this folder. Most of the actions to save data in the Redux store slices should be defined here as well.

Reviewer: > All RTK queries should be triggered by components in this folder.

What does this mean? This sounds like a over restrictive rule.

Author: That sounds indeed a bit misleading. I changed the text to emphasize that code interacting with the Redux store should go here in `*Api.ts` and `*Slice.ts` files.
See https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-ui/pull/2808/commits/ec811b333cc1d4969711d9452b37a81012340638

- `components`: add here components that can be reused in different contexts. If something is clearly a shared component (E.G. `RenkuAlert`), put it here. If it's not obvious, and currently used by just one component, you can leave it in the `feature` folder (follow the principle: do not over-engineer it too early). Mind that we also store most of the temporary values in the Redux store, so you can define actions here if necessary.
- `utils`: put here anything generic that doesn't fall into the previous categories (E.G. constants, helper functions, wrappers).

Picking the perfect place isn't always straightforward and our current folder structure still has many outdated components that don't follow the convention. We plan to move them when already touching the code for other changes.

> #### **Use CSS modules**

Reviewer 2: I think this should emphasize that the css modules are for styles that are local to a component.

```suggestion
#### **Use CSS modules for local styles**
```

We use [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) to apply CSS styles
locally and avoid leaking styles to the whole web application.
No additional configuration is needed since Create React App [supports CSS modules out of the box](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-css-modules-stylesheet).

### Testing

We split testing into multiple categories. All these tests are required to pass
before we merge a PR.

#### Unit tests

> We use [jest](https://jestjs.io) for unit testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use [jest](https://jestjs.io) for **unit testing**.
```

Unit tests are used to test individual functions. We don't have a fixed rule for
the amount of coverage we require, but we try to cover all the helper functions and

> the most important functions used by components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the most important functions used by components. Note, we do not test components using jest/jsdom. Tests that require a browser/DOM environment are implemented either in Storybook or Cypress (see below).
```

Files containing unit tests are named `*.test.ts`. Usually, they refer to a specific
file in the `src` folder, so you can find the tests for `src/*/MyComponent.tsx`
in `src/*/MyComponent.test.ts`.

You can run the unit tests manually using the following command:

    $ cd client
    $ npm test

#### Component tests

We use [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org) to test single React components in isolation.
This tool allows us to create interactive stories and to keep track of all the reusable
components we implemented.
_Mind that this is a recent introduction so you can expect quite a few components to be
missing._

Storybook files are named `*.stories.tsx` and refer to specific components.
The overhead of writing stories is rather low, so we encourage you to write them
for all new components.
Whether to write stories for specific components depends on the size and re-usability
of the component. The more simple and reusable a component is, the more important
it is to have a story for it.
Be sure to check out the full documentation [here](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-stories/introduction).

> You can run component tests using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run component tests using the following command in the client subfolder:
```

[Cypress](https://www.cypress.io).

Cypress tests are located in the `tests` folder and are named `*.spec.ts`. We don't have a
fixed naming convention for them, but we try to group tests based on features instead of
single components. For this reason, some components might be tested in multiple spec files,
while others get less coverage.

Keep in mind we test real scenarios and we try to simulate users interacting with the
platform. Since our goal is to catch non-obvious regressions, we mock backend
responses in different scenarios, including errors and other edge cases. They _do_
occasionally occur in our platform, especially since users can change a lot of things
in their projects and break them in creative ways, so the best we can do is handle
errors gracefully and provide meaningful feedback to the user so that they can recover
whenever possible.

Cypress is also a great tool to run components in the browser and debug them. Most of the
time, you don't need the whole platform to develop or update a component, so you can
use Cypress to develop the UI without a dedicated RenkuLab deployment.

You can run Cypress tests using the following command:

    $ cd tests

>     $ npm run e2e:local

Reviewer 2: `:local` is not necessary
```suggestion
    $ npm run e2e
```

or `node --inspect-brk`, you have to reference Jest from
`./node_modules/@craco/craco/dist/bin/jest`.

The following example shows how to check for memory leaks:

    $ node --expose-gc ./node_modules/@craco/craco/dist/bin/jest --runInBand --logHeapUsage *

#### Deployments

As already mentioned, you don't strictly need a full RenkuLab deployment for the client.
Using Cypress, you can test your changes against a mocked backend; otherwise, you can run
the client locally and point to a development instance like `https://dev.renku.ch` or one
of the CI deployments made on each PR.

#### Telepresence

If you are part of the Renku team, you should have full access to the development
infrastructure.

In this case, you can use [Telepresence](https://www.telepresence.io) to develop the UI
in a realistic setting. The client folder includes a `run-telepresence.sh` script that
is tailored for the SDSC development cluster.

Try to run it to get more instructions:

    $ cd client
    $ ./run-telepresence.sh

Telepresence replaces the UI client pod in the target Kubernetes instance. All the traffic
is then redirected to a local process, making changes to files almost immediately available

> in your development RenkuLab instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in your development RenkuLab instance.

**Configuration**
The script allows configuration of certain aspects of the deployment through environment variables. Take a look at the script to see all the options that are available.

The script generates a `config.json` file into the `client/public` folder, and you can modify this file with a text editor and reload the browser to test out different configuration settings.
```

Author: Great addition, thanks!

  [slices](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/usage/usage-with-typescript#createslice) that
  encapsulate the state they need and add the slices into the
  [global store](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/api/configureStore).

> - Use slice-specific selector hooks (E.G.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use slice-specific selector hooks (e.g.
```

see https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/e.g.

Author: Changed the other occurrences too for consistency

Here are the folders in `/client/src` where to place new components:

- `features`: create/use sub-folders to contain files identifying single features.
  These sometimes correspond to Renku abstractions, like "Projects", "Datasets",
  "Sessions", or to cross-entity features such as "Search" and "Dashboard".

>   Wherever relevant, please add `*Api.ts` files containg the RTK queries and `*Slice.ts`
>   files for slices.

Reviewer: Per the coding guidelines, these should end in `.api.ts` and `.slice.ts`

```suggestion
  Wherever relevant, please add `*.api.ts` files containg the RTK queries and `*.slice.ts`
  files for slices.
```

- Creating a WebSocket client that can invoke APIs on behalf of the user.
- Storing temporary data for the client (E.G. recent searches and recently
  visited projects or).

Though the server is the first recipient of service requests from the client,
in most cases the server just forwards requests to the appropriate service with the
access tokens attached. For this reason, the codebase is much smaller and simpler
than the client.

### Tool Stack

| Framework                                                           | Purpose                            |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| [Express](https://expressjs.com)                                    | Route and respond to HTTP requests |
| [Morgan](https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/morgan.html) | Logging middleware for express     |
| [WS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ws)                              | WebSocket framework                |

We use Express to handle HTTP requests and WS to handle WebSocket connections.

### Code structure

We have an abstraction for storage in the `storage` folder. Currently, we support

> only Redis and we don't plan to use the UI server to store non-volatile data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
only Redis, and we do not currently use the UI server to store non-volatile data.
```
